CircleCI uses YAML files to handle the configuration of pipelines and jobs.
Right here on my screen I've got a configuration file from one of my projects,
and I'm just showing you that at first the top level,
the highest level of the hierarchy with everything else is collapsed,
just so that it all fits on my screen.
You can see at the top there's a version.
This is what tells the CircleCI system that
this YAML file should be hitting the 2.1 version of a CircleCI API.
So if you want certain features that are only
available in a certain version then you'd want to represent that version here.
We also have commands.
Commands are reusable blocks of code,
like jobs, but are just reusable.
We can reference them in other places and run the code that is inside of these commands.
The next section is jobs.
This is where all the work actually gets done in the CI server.
Each job is represented by a name and has a configuration for that job.
We've got environment, docker,
steps as the next level down and these are
just instructions about what to do when we want to lint to the frontend.
Same thing with build-backend,
this is another job and it takes
these instructions to be able to actually build the backend.
So let's take a look in the next section, which is workflows.
The workflow section contains a list of workflows, as you guessed it.
Each workflow lays out the order in which job should be run for that workflow.
I have only one workflow,
which is often the case.
It's called default, and inside of the default workflow,
I've got a list of jobs.
These are the same jobs as what are
referenced or what are defined up here in the job section.
You'll notice that I have a job called lint-frontend.
If I go back to my workflow,
you'll see that I have a lint-frontend referenced here in my job list.
That just means that it's going to run
the lint-frontend job at the very beginning of the workflow.
Since it actually has no requirements and neither does build-backend,
both of those are actually going to run together side-by-side, if it can.
Test-frontend on the other hand, has a requirement.
It requires lint-frontend to have been run first.
So this job will actually
wait until lint-frontend is finished and then it will start running.
You can see how this list of jobs with the requirements independencies,
it builds a hierarchy of jobs that run in the order
that we defined here and eventually will leave visualizing this in just a few moments,
about how that actually works.